
Que. What is lambda expression?

The expressions through which we can represent Anonymous function is called lambda expression. 
Anonymous: Nameless / Unknown

Anonymous function: A method who don't have any name or modifier.

Syntax: Prameter ()    Expression ->    Body {};

The lambda expression only can applicable for functional interface.
the method which is present in the functional interface only.


Que. What is functional interface?

The interface who contains only one abstract method and any number of default and static methods 
is called as functional interface.

For example: 

1. Runnable -> run()
2. Callable-> call()

3. Comparable-> compareTo() The Comparable interface is implemented by a class to define its natural ordering.
By implementing Comparable, a class indicates that its instances can be sorted using the natural ordering.

The compareTo method returns value as : 1,0,-1 and the two objects are swapped only when the compareTo method returns 1.

If compareTo() returns a negative integer, it indicates that the current object should come before the object being compared to.
If compareTo() returns zero, it means that the two objects are considered equal in terms of ordering.
If compareTo() returns a positive integer, it means that the current object should come after the object being compared to.

4. Comparator-> compare() The Comparator interface provides a way to define custom ordering for objects that 
may not have a natural ordering or for cases where you want to define multiple sorting criteria.
It contains two methods: compare(Object obj1, Object obj2) and equals(Object obj).

5. Consumer-> accept()
Consumer can be use in all contexts where object need to be consumed.
i.e. taken as a input and some operation is to be performed on the object without returning any result.

6. Predicate interface - This functional interface can be used for conditional check.
Where you think we can use true/false returning function in day to day programming we should choose predicate.
boolean test(Tt);

7. Supplier interface - This functional interface can be used to print some dummy data while 
expected result not display from the list.


Que. What is Stream API

Stream API is used to process list of object/It is a sequence of objects that supports various methods
which can be pipelined to produce the desired result. 

A Stream is not a data structure instead it takes input from the collections, Arrays or channels.

Stream don't change the original data structure, they only provide the result as per the pipelined methods.

Que. Why we need Stream API

Functional style of programming.
Code reduce.
Bulk operations.
Better performance.


SELECT MAX (Salary) FROM Employee WHERE Salary NOT IN (SELECT Max (Salary) FROM Employee);

SELECT DEPARTMENT_ID, COUNT(*) 
    FROM EMPLOYEES WHERE GROUP BY DEPARTMENT_ID HAVING COUNT(*)>5;
    
//Get employee name and manager name from employee tble based on id

select E.firstname AS EMPLOYEE_NAME, M.firstName AS MANAGER_NAME from EMPLOYEE E JOIN EMPLOYEE M ON M.managerId= E.eployeeId;
















